---
id: 363
title: Fizz Buzz
date: 2010-09-27T17:12:22+00:00
author: kianryan
layout: post
guid: http://www.kianryan.co.uk/2010/09/fizz-buzz/
permalink: /2010/09/fizz-buzz/
dsq_thread_id:
  - "184524352"
categories:
  - Code
---
I just read [&#8220;Why Can&#8217;t Programmer&#8217;s Program&#8221;](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2007/02/why-cant-programmers-program.html) over on Coding Horror. Out of sheer curiosity, I googled &#8220;Fizz Buzz C#&#8221; just to see what some people had engineered. The idea of the [&#8220;Fizz Buzz&#8221;](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bizz_buzz) test is to provide a starting point to prove you can write working code. Nothing complicated, but apparently 199/200 applicants can&#8217;t even do this.

I do hiring for a few of my clients, and I&#8217;m pretty much in agreement with the general community sentiments. I&#8217;ve had people across my desk quite a few times with what look to be quite distinctive backgrounds, only to fail at simple day-to-day ASP.NET coding tasks. I would recommend to _anyone_ involved in recruiting to make their candidates sit a simple skills test to determine whether they can actually code before putting applicants in front of a client. For discussion, I submit my own Fizz Buzz answer.

<div>
  <pre class="brush: csharp; title: ; notranslate" title="">
using System;

public class Program
{
    public static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        for (int i = 1; i &lt; 101; i++) // i &lt;= 100 is also fine
        {
            Console.WriteLine(FizzBuzz(i));
        }
    }
    
    public static string FizzBuzz(int i)
    {
        if (i % 15 == 0) return "FizzBuzz";
        if (i % 3 == 0) return "Fizz";
        if (i % 5 == 0) return "Buzz";
        return i.ToString();
    }
}
</pre>
</div>

That took 90 seconds to write, _and_ we can have a conversation about why I&#8217;ve factored FizzBuzz as a method (easy unit testing), why I&#8217;m using multiple exit points (because I think in this case it adds clarity) and why I&#8217;ve not made the amazingly trivial mistake (which around 50% of the google results did) of writing i < 100.